# Webpage for `BE262`, Physical Biology Bootcamp at Caltech
### Rob Phillips Group
### https://www.rpgroup.caltech.edu/be262/

## How to update/archive website material
Say we're in year 20XX. To make a new year's offering course webpage for the new year 20XX+1:
1. First, archive the current/old year's `index.html` page. Do this by making a new directory called the current year, '20XX', and copying the current `index.html` file held at the top level of this `be262` directory into the new directory. (The logic of the whole webpage is that whatever `index.html` is found at the top level is the one served by github pages to visitors to the webpage without a year suffix.)
	* Note: not essential to get a functional `20XX+1` page up and running, but: to properly archive the old websites so references are intact, you must also copy the contents of `_site/20XX/` into the `_site/20XX+1` folder.
2. Next, edit the `index.html` file still at the top level of `be262` to indicate the new year, by changing `year: 20XX` to `year: 20XX+1`. 
3. Now, go to the `_posts` directory. This directory contains the majority of files you would be updating the content of that comprise the website (eg those `About`, `People`, `Programming`, and `Readings` links that populate the left side of the webpage). The webpage framework essentially expects a structure like a blog, so each of the Markdown files in `_posts` contains a date. These dates are arbitrary, except for the fact that the current year's posts must all have the current numerical year correctly specified. So, copy the old/current year's posts---namely, eg `20XX-01-24-readings.md`, `20XX-01-25-code.md`, and so on---into new versions that are renamed with the new year, e.g. `20XX+1-01-24-readings.md`, etc. Next, inside each of these year `20XX+1` post .md files, edit anything that says the old `20XX` year into `20XX+1`: e.g. at the minimum the `tag:` and `year:` attributes at the top of each of the files. But also, for e.g. the `20XX+1-01-24-code.md` file, you'll need to edit a mention in `site.data.20XX.speakers` to `site.data.20XX+1.speakers`, etc. 
4. That last edit recommends that under `_data`, there will be expected to be a directory with each year where info is to be found. So, cd into `_data` and copy the old year `20XX` directory into a new directory named `20XX+1`. 
5. Edit these `_data/20XX+1` files accordingly to reflect the new schedule of speakers, the new TA's, any mugshots, etc. Add any new people/speaker mugshots to `be262/images/people/` so you can call them in files found in `_data/20XX+1`; remember that it is strongly recommended that all images are square in aspect ratio to prevent formatting weirdness.
6. Update anything else with new materials! Remember to commit etc.

### Notes about website logic
- To update information, most of the time you'll modify the entries in this year's appropriate `_posts`, or the data files automatically consulted in `_data/20XX+1`. Git committing should result in a Github page build that is indicated by a little yellow dot (denoting `pending` compilation) that turns to a green checkmark next to your commit status in the main repo page, indicating that the changes have propagated to the live webpage.
- `Jekyll` automatically compiles the contents of `_site`, so do not directly edit the `.html` files found in this folder (except for perhaps copying into older year directories), because these changes won't reflect in compiling the github page upon every commit. Instead, update the relevant files in `_posts` or in the top level `be262` directory.